---
title: HW8 Visualizations
tags: [Visualizations, Homework]
image: assets/pngs/cars.png
description: This is a blog post on my homework 8.
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---
<div class="middle">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv" text="Dataset" %}
</div>

<div class="middle">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/UIUC-iSchool-DataViz/is445_data/main/building_inventory.csv" text="Analysis" %}
</div>  

This is my submission for my homework 8 assignment.

## 1. Visualization Num. 1

For the first visualization, I created a bar chart to show the building usage across the different congressional districts. For the bars, they each represent a congressional district, and the height of the bar shows the count of buildings in that district. I put the congressional district on the x-axis and the count of buildings on the y-axis. Additionally, I applied a color scheme to differentiate between different usage descriptions, allowing readers to easily identify the dominant types of buildings in each district. In terms of data transformations, I preprocessed the dataset by filtering out any rows with missing values and grouped the data by congressional district and usage description to obtain the count of buildings for each category.  

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/viz1.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>

## 2. Visualization Num. 2

For the second visualization, I created an interactive scatter plot that shows the relationship between the year a building was acquired and its square footage. Each point on the plot represents a building, with the x-axis representing the year acquired and the y-axis representing the square footage. I used a ordering color scheme to represent the usage description, helping readers to visually identify the different types of buildings based on their colors.  

<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/viz2.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>